PFM Opportunity Monitor
Technology and architecture design v0.4: Postgres-only scope, with the decision register
Draft v0.4, 11 September 2026. Prepared by Ryan Dear. Supersedes v0.2 (10 September) and the files circulated as v0.3, which carried v0.2 bodies under a v0.3 filename. Companion to the EMEA Pilot Plan v0.4, the Weekend Build Plan v1.3 and the Source Inventory EMEA v0.2. Working document for the working group; not for wider distribution.
1. How to read this document
This is the engineering view of the pilot described in the EMEA Pilot Plan v0.4: 47 countries, every language, 26 connectors of our own in wave 1 and 63 by the end of wave 2. Sections 2 to 9 describe the design as proposed. Section 10 is the decision register. Section 11 lists what I need from Martin and Matthew. Read section 10 first if time is short.
What changed from v0.2, in one paragraph. Review and approval live in PostgreSQL for the whole fourteen weeks. The review app is the permanent reviewer interface, not a weekend stand-in. Approved records leave the system as a one-way CSV export, which BD imports into Zoho CRM using Zoho's standard import. There is no CRM integration in any phase of this pilot: no Zoho SDK, no OAuth flow, no Deluge script, no webhook, no CRM credential anywhere in the system. Zoho integration is a separate decision taken after the week 14 gate, on evidence, and is described in section 9.5 as a future phase. This is D31, and it supersedes D2, D3, D11, D28, D29 and D30.
Why this is the stronger design, not a retreat. The checkpoint principle stops being a promise about a script and becomes a database grant with a test behind it: the pipeline's Postgres role has no privilege on approved_records and a test proves the insert fails. It removes the longest-latency dependency in the plan, which was never technical (Zoho sandbox, CRM API credentials, OAuth registration, a picklist change, CRM admin time). It removes an entire governance surface, because nothing in the system holds a credential to a production business system. And it keeps the pilot cheap to stop, which is the point of running one: an integration built in weeks 1 to 3 and abandoned at week 14 is waste, a CSV file is not.
What it costs, stated plainly. There is no automated check for an Opportunity BD is already tracking, so the reviewer is the only control against duplicates. Account resolution happens at import rather than at approval. And there is a lag between approval and the record appearing in Zoho equal to the export cadence, which the reviewer and BD set. Section 12 carries all three as risks with owners.
Status legend. Decided: proposed as final for the pilot, change only with a reason. Recommended: my preferred option, open to challenge. Open: needs an owner's call before the date shown.
2. Design principles
Principle
What it means here
Buy before build
Feeds and APIs before scrapers. A managed model before self-hosting. One model vendor for translation and scoring. Custom code only where nothing covers the need, which in this pilot is the rubric, the dedupe and the review queue.
One way to do things
One host, one scheduler (systemd timers), one database (Postgres), one model vendor behind one interface, one translation path, one write path into approved records, one way out of the system.
No fallbacks in code
A connector that fails raises and marks its source unhealthy. A translation that fails a schema check parks the notice. Nothing tries a second selector, a second model or a second translation service. Alternatives are decisions people take, not branches the code takes.
Fail fast, loudly
Schema validation at every boundary with typed models. Zero-yield runs are failures, not empty successes.
Separation of concerns
Acquire, normalise, translate, filter, score, dedupe, stage, review, export. Each is a module with one job and a typed contract on each side.
Human checkpoint by construction
Two database roles. The pipeline role has no privilege on approved_records. Exactly one code path inserts into it, inside the reviewer's decision transaction, under a named reviewer. The property is enforced by the grant, not by convention.
No integration in scope
The system holds no credential to any business system. Approved records leave as a file and by no other route. There is no import path, no reconciliation job and no write-back.
Config over code
Sources, lexicons per language, thresholds, the function list, the product mapping and the record defaults are versioned configuration files. Changing a keyword is a pull request, not a deployment.
Original text is the record
The notice as published, in its language, is what is stored and shown. The English rendering is a derived field with its own model and version stamp.
Measure before scaling
Nothing scales until the golden set, the back-test and the live precision numbers say it should.
3. System context
The Monitor sits between public procurement and donor sources in 47 countries on one side and a file on the other. It never talks to a government portal on anyone's behalf, and it sends nothing outward at all.
Actor or system
Role
Direction
Public feeds: TED, Find a Tender, Prozorro, simap, DÖE, PLACE, BOAMP, World Bank, AfDB, MCC, EU Funding and Tenders, UNDP, UNGM, EBRD
Origin of notices, structured or semi-structured
Read only, once a day
National and state portals: ten West African portals in wave 1; Balkan, Mauritanian, Nigerien, Togolese and two Nigerian state portals in wave 2
Origin of notices, HTML or PDF, in English, French, Arabic, Albanian, Bosnian, Macedonian and Montenegrin
Read only, once a day
Intake mailbox (Google Workspace shared mailbox)
Receives UNDB, AfDB, OECD and portal alert emails, and forwards from staff
Read only, polled
Monitor pipeline (AWS ca-central-1, one Linux host in the pilot)
Acquire, normalise, translate, filter, score, dedupe, stage. Connects as monitor_pipeline.
Core
Claude (direct API in the interim, Amazon Bedrock on cutover)
Translation, classification, extraction, summary. Public notice text only.
Request and response; the pipeline stores only the parsed result
Review app (FastAPI on the same host, bound to localhost)
Queue, candidate detail, decision form, decided list, source health, audit log, export. Connects as monitor_review.
Read the queue, write the decision
Reviewer (one, EMEA) and backup
Approves, edits, rejects; owns rejection reasons including translation faults; checks the CRM by hand for an existing Opportunity before approving
Human, through the review app over an SSM tunnel
Export file (CSV plus manifest, on the host and in S3)
The only thing that leaves the system
One way, out
BD import operator (named in D32)
Imports the export batch into Zoho CRM using Zoho's standard import, resolves the Account, sets the Lead Source and Stage
Human, outside the system boundary
Maintainer (Ryan in pilot)
Connectors, lexicons, rubric, health
Human
There is no Zoho component inside the boundary. Zoho appears exactly once in this design, as the destination a person carries a file to.
4. Logical architecture
Eleven modules in a straight line. Each has one input contract and one output contract, both typed and validated on entry.
Module
Input
Output
Notes
Source registry
sources/*.yaml, generated from the Source Inventory spreadsheet (131 rows, reconciled against the BD Africa and Europe worksheets)
Typed Source objects
One file per source: id, country, language, admin level, stream, access type, connector class, schedule window, ToS status, health thresholds, owner, wave.
Connectors
Source
RawNotice records (url, fetched_at, raw text or document, content hash)
Four classes only: FeedConnector (JSON, OCDS, eForms, ATOM, RSS), PageConnector (static HTML and PDF bulletins), BrowserConnector (Playwright for JavaScript portals), MailConnector (intake mailbox). A site is configuration plus, where unavoidable, a small parser function.
Change detection
RawNotice
New or changed RawNotice only
Content hash against the raw store. Zero new items on a source that normally yields is an anomaly, logged and counted.
Normaliser
RawNotice
Notice (canonical schema, appendix A)
OCDS-inspired fields. Language from the source registry, confirmed by a language identifier. Documents extracted with pdftotext; scanned PDFs to Textract. Buyer, country, deadline parsed with typed rules, not the model.
Translator
Notice with language not in {en, fr} and no CPV
Notice with title_en, body_en, translation model and prompt version
Claude Haiku 4.5, strict JSON, system names and acronyms kept as written. Runs before the filter only when the filter cannot read the language.
Filter
Notice
Notice with filter_result
Stage 1, free: CPV codes where present (48, 72, 79 top-level), then the lexicon of the notice language, or the English lexicon on the translation. Drops most volume before any scoring call.
Scorer
Notice
Score (appendix C schema)
Claude Haiku 4.5 with a strict schema through tool use; reasons on the original text and returns title_en and summary_en. Cached system prompt carries the rubric, the 33 PFM functions, both lexicons and the system-name list. Scores between 40 and 70 are re-scored once by Sonnet 5. Any schema failure is retried once, then parked.
Deduper
Scored Notice
Candidate (one per real-world tender) with linked sources
Exact hash, then fuzzy match on the English title plus country plus deadline window, then shared system name plus country plus deadline within seven days. Embedding similarity deferred (D4).
Stager
Candidate above threshold
candidates.status = pending_review, with region and original language
A status change in Postgres. No push, no sync, no outbound call. Everything below threshold stays in Postgres for tuning and is never shown to the reviewer.
Record builder
Candidate, its source cluster, config/record_defaults.yaml
An Opportunity-shaped record dict, field for field per appendix E
Deterministic mapping, no model call. Every field BD alone can judge is set to the same placeholder the CRM already uses today (TBD, Unknown, blank, a bare dash or 0), so an imported record reads like an early-stage record a person started, not a machine's guess dressed up as fact.
Exporter
Approved records in a date range or a named batch
UTF-8 CSV with BOM plus a sibling manifest; exported_at and export_batch written back
One command and one button. Columns in the CRM's Opportunity field order and naming, so Zoho's import mapper matches on headers. Batch id, row count, date range, reviewer names and the sha256 of the file in the manifest. A record is never exported twice unless an operator explicitly re-exports a named batch.
The review side lives in Postgres
The queue is a view over candidates where status is pending_review, served by a small FastAPI application with server-rendered Jinja pages on the same host. Five pages and one form: queue filterable by region and language, candidate detail with the score, matched functions and evidence, system names, English summary, original text where the language is not English, source links and the proposed record rendered field by field and editable; a decided list; source health; the audit log; and the export page.
On Approve, in one transaction as monitor_review: candidates.status becomes approved, the Opportunity-shaped record is inserted into approved_records, and two events rows are written, one for the reviewer's decision and one for the record creation attributed to that reviewer. Edit-then-approve puts the edited fields into the record and writes a before-and-after event. Reject requires a reason, enforced server side, and "translation wrong" is one of the reasons and is reported as a metric.
Why this shape matters for the checkpoint principle. The pipeline connects as monitor_pipeline, which has no privilege on approved_records. Exactly one module, review/decisions.py, inserts into that table, and it connects as monitor_review. A test attempts the insert as the pipeline role and asserts it fails, and attempts it as the review role and asserts it succeeds. That test runs in CI on every commit. The property an auditor, and Manuel, will want to see is a grant and a passing test, not a paragraph in a design document.
How an approved record reaches Zoho
A person carries it. The export produces a CSV with one row per approved record and a manifest beside it. The named import operator opens Zoho CRM, runs the standard Opportunities import, maps the columns once and saves the mapping, resolves the Account for each row, and sets the Lead Source and Stage per whatever BD decides those should be. The monitor_candidate_id column travels with the row so an imported record can be traced back to the notice and the audit trail.
There is no write-back. Nothing tells the Monitor what happened to a record after export, and nothing needs to for the pilot: the week 14 numbers are measured on approvals, estimated value and country, all of which the Monitor already holds. What BD did with the record afterwards comes from BD, at the gate, by hand.
5. Technology stack
Layer
Choice
Status
Rationale
Language and tooling
Python 3.12, uv, ruff, pytest, pydantic v2
Decided
Typed models at every boundary; the most hireable stack for this class of work.
HTTP and parsing
httpx, selectolax
Decided
Fast, minimal, no browser for static pages.
Browser automation
Playwright (Chromium) in its own container on the same host
Decided
Only for JavaScript portals (Ghana, Côte d'Ivoire, the five Balkan portals). Kept separate so the cheap fetchers never carry a browser.
Document text
pdftotext (Poppler); Amazon Textract for scans
Decided
OCR only when a text layer is absent. The Burkina Faso weekly bulletin and several Malian and Nigerien notices are scanned PDFs.
Language identification
A small on-host language identifier (fastText lid model) as a check on the registry's declared language
Decided
Catches English notices on French portals and vice versa; no model call.
Translation
Claude Haiku 4.5 through the same client, strict JSON
Recommended (D20)
One vendor, one client, one governance approval. No Amazon Translate, no DeepL, no dictionary.
Fuzzy matching
rapidfuzz
Decided
Dedupe stage 2 on the English title.
Hosting
AWS Canada Central (ca-central-1), dedicated member account
Recommended (D13)
Existing estate, in-house AWS skills, Canadian residency, stable egress IP. Google Cloud EU retained as the alternative.
Model access
Anthropic Python SDK; Anthropic() on the direct API in the interim, AnthropicBedrock() after cutover
Recommended (D1)
The client class is the only code that changes. See section 9.4 for the cutover trigger.
Models
Claude Haiku 4.5 (translate, classify), Claude Sonnet 5 (borderline re-score, donor strategy summaries, research bake-off)
Recommended (D1)
Opus 5 for the bake-off only.
Model call mode
Synchronous Messages API with prompt caching; Batch deferred to phase 4
Decided (D5)
Pilot volume is 200 to 500 calls a day including translation. Batch saves about USD 60 a month at that volume and costs up to 24 hours of latency against a 24-hour detection target.
Database
PostgreSQL 16 in a container, data on its own EBS volume, pgvector installed; Amazon RDS at scale
Decided
One database for notices, translations, candidates, approved records, events, health and lexicon versions.
Database roles
Exactly two at runtime, monitor_pipeline and monitor_review, plus monitor_readonly for reporting. No superuser or owner connection at runtime.
Decided (D31)
This is the checkpoint.
Object storage
Amazon S3, one bucket, lifecycle rule at 180 days; a separate exports/ prefix with no lifecycle rule
Decided
Raw HTML and documents for replay and audit; export batches kept for the life of the pilot.
Review UI
FastAPI with server-rendered Jinja templates on the pilot host, bound to localhost, reached over an SSM port forward
Decided (D31)
Five pages and one form. No JavaScript framework, no build step, no CSS framework beyond one small stylesheet.
Write path out
CSV export plus manifest, imported into Zoho CRM by a named person
Decided (D31)
No SDK, no OAuth, no Deluge, no webhook, no credential.
Notifications
None in the pilot. The reviewer works the queue on a schedule they set.
Decided (D31, supersedes D10)
Nothing is notified before shadow mode proves precision, and after that the reviewer is the only consumer. Notification returns with the integration decision.
Runtime
One EC2 t3.large in the pilot; t3.xlarge from week 9 if the nightly window exceeds two hours; EC2 M-series plus RDS in production
Recommended (D17, D18)
A single visible host with a stable IP. 26 sources in wave 1 and 63 by week 12; the window is measured, not assumed.
Scheduling
systemd timers, one unit per job, two source windows: 04:00 to 06:00 Europe local and 05:00 to 07:00 West Africa local
Decided
Polite windows per region; sources read once a day.
Secrets
AWS Secrets Manager: the model API key and portal credentials. No CRM credential exists.
Decided
No secrets in code, config or images.
Observability
CloudWatch agent with structured logs; source_health table; alarms on three consecutive failures, zero-yield anomaly, CPU credit balance, disk, translation schema failures, export backlog and the daily model cap
Decided
Weekly metrics job writes precision, recall, translation rejection rate and export backlog to a table the review app reads.
Infrastructure as code
Terraform, one module, one workspace
Decided
Rebuild from scratch in under an hour is the disaster recovery plan.
Source control and CI
GitHub repository under the FreeBalance organisation; GitHub Actions
Open (D14)
Ownership and IP need a decision; created under a personal account Friday night, transferred Monday.
6. Deployment architecture (AWS Canada Central)
One dedicated member account, one region (ca-central-1, Montréal), one Linux host in the pilot, no inbound network path at all. The pipeline is outbound only, and the review app listens on localhost. There is no load balancer, no public endpoint and no webhook receiver, because nothing external needs to reach this system.
Component
Pilot configuration
Notes
Account
Member account fb-opp-monitor; budget alert at USD 300 a month; CloudTrail on
Dedicated account keeps cost, IAM and blast radius separate from delivery workloads (D13).
Region
ca-central-1
Confirm Haiku 4.5 and Sonnet 5 availability in-region before the Bedrock cutover (D1, D19).
Compute
EC2 t3.large (2 vCPU, 8 GiB), Ubuntu 24.04 LTS, standard credit mode, Elastic IP; t3.xlarge if the wave-2 window exceeds two hours
Standard mode means an exhausted credit balance slows the run rather than raising the bill.
Access
Systems Manager Session Manager only; no SSH port, no inbound rules. The reviewer reaches the app through an SSM port forward to localhost:8080.
Every session is logged. The review app is never exposed.
Containers
Docker Compose: pipeline, pipeline-browser (Playwright), review, postgres:16 with pgvector; images in ECR
One image per connector class.
Scheduling
systemd timers: fetch-feeds-europe 04:00 CET, fetch-portals-wa 05:00 GMT, fetch-browser daily, fetch-mail hourly, translate-and-filter hourly, score-and-stage hourly, health check after each fetch, metrics weekly
Each unit is idempotent and safe to re-run by hand. No sync timer, because there is nothing to sync with.
Database
PostgreSQL 16 container, 100 GB gp3 EBS volume, three roles
Production moves to RDS.
Object storage
S3 bucket fb-opp-monitor-raw, versioning on, Glacier Instant Retrieval at 180 days; exports/ prefix exempt from the lifecycle rule
Raw pages and documents keyed by content hash; export batches and manifests kept whole.
Backups
AWS Backup: daily EBS snapshot, 7-day retention; weekly pg_dump to S3, 90-day retention
Restore drill in week 10.
Secrets
Secrets Manager: model API key, portal credentials per source
Read by the instance role only. No CRM secret exists to leak.
Model
Direct Anthropic API in the interim; Bedrock, Haiku 4.5 and Sonnet 5, regional endpoint after cutover; quota sized for 600 calls a day
Same Anthropic SDK either way.
OCR
Textract, only when a PDF has no text layer
About USD 1.50 per 1,000 pages; the Burkina bulletin alone is 40 to 80 pages a week.
Observability
CloudWatch alarms on three consecutive source failures, zero-yield anomaly, CPUCreditBalance below 50, disk above 80 percent, translation schema failure rate above 2 percent, export backlog older than seven days, and the daily model cap
Alarms to one SNS topic, email.
Network
Default VPC, public subnet, security group with no ingress and egress on 443 and 80 only
Port 80 needed because several West African portals still lack TLS.
CI and deploy
GitHub Actions with an OIDC role: build images, push to ECR, deploy through SSM Run Command
No long-lived AWS keys anywhere.
Infrastructure as code
Terraform, one workspace
Rebuild in under an hour.
Production shape (phase 4 onward)
Component
EMEA full (80 to 100 connectors)
Global (600 sources)
Application host
EC2 m6i.large, about USD 78 a month on-demand; 1-year Compute Savings Plan cuts 30 to 40 percent
EC2 m6i.xlarge, about 156 a month; or ECS Fargate scheduled tasks if the nightly window exceeds six hours (D18)
Database
RDS for PostgreSQL, db.t4g.medium, single-AZ
RDS Multi-AZ, cross-region snapshot copy
Browser workers
Same host, concurrency 2
Separate worker host or Fargate tasks, concurrency by region
Model
Bedrock, same models; Batch inference for the overnight bulk
Same, with provisioned throughput only if latency becomes contractual
Review and hand-off
Review app plus CSV export
Integration decided at the week 14 gate; if taken, it replaces the export and inherits the same single-write-path rule
Indicative cloud cost, monthly
300 to 500
500 to 1,000
Alternative retained: Google Cloud EU
The same design maps one-to-one: Cloud Run jobs, Cloud Scheduler, Cloud SQL, Cloud Storage, Secret Manager, Document AI for OCR, and Claude on Vertex AI in europe-west1. It scales to zero and costs 20 to 40 dollars a month less in the pilot, at the price of rotating egress IPs and a second cloud vendor to onboard. The code does not change; only the Terraform and the client class do.
7. Data model
Postgres holds all of it. There is no second system of record in the pilot.
Table
Purpose
Key fields
sources
Mirror of the registry for joins and health
id, country, admin_level, language, stream, access_type, connector_class, wave, tos_status, enabled
fetch_runs
One row per source per run
id, source_id, started_at, finished_at, status, items_seen, items_new, error
notices_raw
Every new or changed item
content_hash (PK), source_id, url, fetched_at, storage_uri, mime
notices
Canonical, normalised, original language
id, content_hash, source_id, external_id, title, buyer, country, admin_level, published_at, deadline_at, language, language_confidence, cpv_codes[], text_uri, filter_result
translations
English rendering, one per notice and prompt version
notice_id, title_en, body_en_uri, model, prompt_version, latency_ms, cost_usd, created_at
scores
Model output, versioned
notice_id, model, prompt_version, relevance, title_en, matched_functions[], estimated_value, eligibility_flags[], summary_en, raw_json, latency_ms, cost_usd
candidates
One per real-world tender
id, primary_notice_id, score, status (detected, filtered_out, scored, staged, pending_review, approved, rejected), region, language, rejection_reason
candidate_notices
Dedupe cluster membership, possibly across languages
candidate_id, notice_id, match_method, match_score
approved_records
The Opportunity-shaped record created at approval. Insert only by monitor_review.
id, candidate_id, reviewer_name, approved_at, record_json (the field-for-field payload per appendix E), edited (bool), exported_at, export_batch
export_batches
One row per export produced
batch_id (PK), created_at, operator, row_count, range_from, range_to, file_uri, manifest_uri, sha256
events
Full audit, pipeline side and review side
id, entity_type, entity_id, action, actor, before, after, at
source_health
Rolling health per source
source_id, last_success_at, consecutive_failures, median_items, last_zero_yield_at, state
lexicon_versions, function_map
Config history per language and the 33 PFM functions with weights and product mapping
version, language, content_hash, applied_at; function_id, name, pillar, type_weight, product[], product_status, keywords_en[], keywords_fr[]
approved_records is deliberately not named for a CRM. Its columns follow the Opportunity shape because that is what the export has to produce, but the table implies no integration, because there is none.
8. Model layer design
Prompt structure
Translation call (only for notices the filter cannot read): a short cached system prompt, the notice title and text, strict JSON with title_en and body_en. System names, acronyms and organisation names are kept as written. About 1,500 tokens a call.
Scoring call, system prompt cached: the rubric, the 33 PFM functions with one-line definitions and type weights, the English and French lexicons, the system-name list, eligibility rules, geography weights and the output schema. Roughly 7,500 tokens, paid once per cache window and then at 10 percent.
Scoring call, user message: language, title, buyer, country, deadline, CPV codes, the first 3,000 tokens of body text in the original language, the machine translation if one exists, and the source URL. No business records, no contact data, no reviewer or staff names, no prior candidates.
Output: one tool call with the schema in appendix C, which includes title_en. Anything else is a hard error. Schema validity rate is a tracked metric; the target is above 99 percent.
Scoring rubric (initial, to be tuned in weeks 9 to 14)
relevance = 100 × sigmoid(w1·function_fit + w2·system_signal + w3·value_band + w4·geography + w5·eligibility + w6·donor − bias). Function fit is the type-weighted sum of matched PFM functions, and the type weight is a lookup from the component map's own Type column rather than a judgement call. System signal rewards named systems (IFMIS, GIFMIS, IPPIS, TSA, HRMIS, SIGIF, SIGFiP, AGFIS, ISFU, e-procurement). Value band uses the stated contract value. Geography is a per-country weight Matthew sets (West Africa 1.0, Ukraine and the Western Balkans 0.8, EU, EEA, UK and Switzerland 0.6 in the initial file). Eligibility subtracts for national-only or local-registration tenders. Donor adds for donor-financed notices. Threshold to stage: 60 in shadow mode, adjusted per region to hit 40 percent precision by week 14.
Escalation and cost control
Haiku 4.5 translates and scores everything that passes the filter. Sonnet 5 re-scores once when relevance is between 40 and 70. Opus 5 is never in the daily path.
Hard caps: 600 model calls a day and USD 25 a day, enforced in code. Exceeding either stops the run and alerts. Expected pilot load is a third to a half of that.
Per-source caps in shadow mode: TED, DÖE, PLACE and BOAMP each stage at most 15 candidates a day until their thresholds are tuned.
Every call logs model, purpose (translate, score, rescore), prompt_version, tokens in and out, and cost.
Evaluation harness
Golden set: 150 notices labelled by Matthew and me in weeks 4 to 6 (60 relevant, 90 not), drawn from TED, Prozorro, World Bank, Senegal, Ghana and one Balkan portal, at least 50 of them non-English. Every prompt or lexicon change is run against it before release.
Translation sample: 30 translated notices (French, German, Ukrainian, Arabic, Albanian) checked by a French reader and a German reader in week 9; Ukrainian, Arabic and Albanian checked against the model's own back-translation and flagged for the reviewer.
Back-test set: the known EMEA misses, at least eight, at least three non-English, replayed through the pipeline from their original publication pages. Recall on this set is the headline number at the week 14 gate.
Export integrity: every batch checked for row count against approved records in range, traceability of every row to a candidate id and an audit trail, manifest hash matching the file, no row exported twice, and every column present in the order the CRM import mapper expects. Any field the mapping does not cover is a field someone will hand-key, and it is reported as a defect.
Live feedback: reviewer rejections with reasons, joined to scores and translations, reviewed weekly.
Data sent to the model
Public notice text and metadata only, in whatever language it was published. The pipeline holds no business records to send, which is now a property of the architecture rather than a rule people have to remember.
9. Lifecycle: build, test, pilot, implement
9.1 Build (weeks 3 to 8), five increments
Increment
Scope
Done when
1. Thin slice (week 3)
Terraform baseline, host with Compose and Postgres, migration 001 with the three roles and their grants, one FeedConnector (TED), normaliser, filter, Haiku scoring, stager, review app queue and decision form, approval inserting an approved_records row
A TED notice travels end to end from fetch to an approved record with a full event trail, and the role test passes both ways.
2. Europe feeds (weeks 3 to 4)
Find a Tender, Prozorro, simap, DÖE, PLACE, BOAMP; translation stage; French lexicon
Seven feeds run five days unattended. A Prozorro and a DÖE notice are translated, filtered and scored.
3. Donor feeds (week 5)
World Bank notices and pipeline, AfDB, MCC, EU Funding and Tenders, UNDP, UNGM, UNDB mailbox, EBRD
All wave-1 feeds run on schedule; first back-test recall measured on the feed-only set.
4. West African portals (weeks 6 to 8)
Benin, Burkina Faso (PDF bulletin, Textract), Côte d'Ivoire (Playwright), The Gambia, Ghana (Playwright), Liberia, Mali, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone
Each portal has a recorded fixture, a contract test and a health threshold.
5. Record, export, dedupe and tuning (weeks 7 to 8)
Record builder against appendix E, exporter with manifest and batch write-back, cross-language dedupe, Sonnet escalation, golden set harness, weekly metrics job
Golden set precision above 60 percent, schema validity above 99 percent, and a dry-run export of hand-approved records imported successfully into a Zoho sandbox by BD with the column mapping saved.
Wave 2 (weeks 9 to 12, in parallel with shadow and live)
Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Mauritania, Niger, Togo, Kaduna, Lagos, IsDB, BOAD, OECD mailbox; EU below-threshold portals in order of Matthew's priority
Added one at a time as each passes its fixture and contract test.
The dry-run import in increment 5 is the one thing in this plan that touches Zoho, and it is done by a BD person with a file, not by the system. Its purpose is to prove the column mapping before live, so the first real batch is not the first time anyone finds out a header does not match.
9.2 Test, what is tested and how
Level
Method
Gate
Unit
pytest on normaliser, filter (both lexicons), dedupe rules, record builder, schema models
Green in CI on every commit.
Role boundary
A test inserts into approved_records as monitor_pipeline and asserts permission denied; the same insert as monitor_review asserts success; a second test asserts the pipeline cannot set candidates.status to approved
Both green in CI on every commit. This is the checkpoint test and it never gets skipped.
Connector contract
Recorded HTML, PDF and JSON fixtures per source; test asserts item count, required fields, declared language, and that a changed layout fails loudly
Every source has a fixture before it is enabled.
Translation
Schema validity; system-name preservation check (every acronym in the original appears in the translation); the week-9 human sample
Schema validity above 98 percent; sample accepted by the readers.
Model evaluation
Golden set run per prompt_version; precision, recall, schema validity, cost per notice, split by language
No prompt change ships below the previous version's precision.
Back-test replay
Known misses pushed through the full pipeline from their original pages
Recall reported overall and for non-English misses; misses attributed to exactly one stage.
Export integrity
Row count, traceability, manifest hash, no double export, column order and naming against the CRM import mapper
Dry-run import into a Zoho sandbox accepted with no hand-keyed field.
Failure drills
Source down, source redesigned, model key revoked, model throttling, translation schema failure, database unreachable, export interrupted halfway, same batch exported twice, CPU credits exhausted, host rebuilt from Terraform and snapshot
Each produces the expected alert and no partial writes.
Security
Secret scan in CI, IAM review against appendix D, dependency audit, no inbound path, Session Manager logging
Reviewed by Ryan under the Acting CSO mandate before live.
User acceptance
Five sessions with the reviewer on the review app during shadow mode, including French and translated candidates
Reviewer can approve, edit and reject a candidate in under two minutes without help.
9.3 Pilot operations (weeks 9 to 14)
Entry to shadow mode: increments 1 to 5 done, role and export tests green, security review done, reviewer and backup trained.
Entry to live: five consecutive shadow days with precision at the queue above 30 percent in both region views, translation sample accepted, the dry-run import accepted, and Matthew's sign-off that the queue is usable.
Daily: automated runs; maintainer checks source health, translation failures, export backlog and the cost line (fifteen minutes). Reviewer works the queue.
Weekly: metrics job Monday; export batch produced on the cadence BD agrees, recommended Monday alongside the metrics; thirty-minute tuning session Tuesday reviewing rejections by reason, precision by region and language, recall, connector breaks; changes shipped as versioned config by Wednesday.
Change control: prompt_version, translation prompt version and lexicon version per language on every score; a change log in the repository.
Incidents: a broken connector is fixed or disabled within two working days; a model, translation or schema fault stops the run and pages the maintainer; a failed export leaves no rows marked exported and is simply re-run.
9.4 The Bedrock cutover
Direct API now is the right call and I would not bring Bedrock forward. Functionally the two routes are the same models, the same SDK and the same prompts; the only code difference is the client class. What Bedrock buys is governance and billing, not capability: the calls land on the existing AWS invoice under the existing AWS agreement, the data stays in ca-central-1, and the CEO sign-off reads better. None of that matters while the pipeline is running on fixtures and public feeds in shadow mode.
Cut over at whichever comes first: the governance approval is written up and names Bedrock as the route, or entry to live mode in week 11. The cutover is half a day: enable model access in the member account, swap Anthropic() for AnthropicBedrock(), re-run the golden set to confirm identical scores at the same prompt_version, and record it in the register (D1). Keep the direct key alive for two weeks after as the recorded alternative, then revoke it. Cut over sooner if the direct key ends up on a personal rather than a company account.
9.5 The integration decision, after the gate
If the week 14 gate says scale, the CSV hand-off becomes the next decision rather than the permanent answer. At that point the question is a real one, decided with a reviewer who has worked the queue for six weeks and a known volume of approvals per week. The options, for the record:
Keep the export. At ten to twenty approvals a week, a weekly import is minutes of work and costs nothing to maintain. This is the honest default and it should not be dismissed because an API exists.
Zoho Creator app plus a Deluge write on Approve. The queue moves into Zoho, the reviewer's Zoho identity becomes the actor on every create, and the same single-write-path rule is re-implemented against Creator instead of Postgres. This was the v0.2 design and it remains the right shape if the reviewer's working day is already inside Zoho and the volume justifies it.
A narrow read scope for duplicate detection only. Search Opportunities by Account and keyword before staging, read only, so the queue stops showing tenders BD already tracks. This is the highest-value integration per unit of risk and it is worth considering before the write path, not after.
Whichever is chosen, the rules do not move: no identity other than a named human ever creates a business record, and every create carries an audit trail back to the notice.
9.6 Implement and scale (phase 4 onward)
Area
Pilot
Scale
Sources
26 connectors in wave 1, 63 by week 12, four connector classes
Same classes; onboarding checklist and fixture per source; aggregators as FeedConnectors
Languages
English and French lexicons; everything else translated
Spanish and Portuguese lexicons for the LATAM wave; per-language golden sets; translation stays one model, one prompt
Dedupe
Hash, fuzzy on the English title, system name plus deadline
Embedding similarity with pgvector when cross-language duplicates are measured
Compute
One t3.large or t3.xlarge, Compose
M-series host plus RDS; Fargate if the nightly window exceeds six hours
Model calls
Synchronous, direct API then Bedrock
Bedrock batch inference for the overnight bulk
Connector health
Alerts to one maintainer
Runbook per failure class; monthly connector review; an LLM-assisted re-extraction step that proposes a fix for review, never applies it
Review
One reviewer, two region views, CSV export
Regional reviewers, reviewer load metric per region, integration decided per 9.5
Ownership
Ryan builds and maintains
Named maintenance owner at 0.5 to 1 FTE; handover with runbooks
10. Decision register
D31, the scope decision, and what it supersedes
Decision
Choice
Rationale
D31. Where review, approval and the hand-off live
Postgres for the whole pilot. The review app is the permanent interface. Approved records leave as a one-way CSV export imported into Zoho by a named person. No CRM integration in any of the fourteen weeks.
Stronger checkpoint (a grant with a test, not a script with a promise), no credential to a production business system anywhere in the design, the longest-latency dependency removed from the critical path, and a pilot that stays cheap to stop. Integration is decided at the gate per 9.5.
Superseded
Was
Now
D2. Where the CRM write lives
Deluge in Creator on Approve
No CRM write exists. review/decisions.py writes approved_records. Revisit at the gate.
D3. Review UI
Zoho Creator app with region views
FastAPI review app on the pilot host, region and language filters.
D11. CRM target record
Opportunities module, written by Creator
Unchanged as the target shape: the export produces Opportunity columns so the import lands in the same module BD already uses. Appendix E is now an export column spec rather than a payload spec.
D28. Lead Source picklist value
Add "Monitor" before any live write
No longer blocking. It becomes an import-mapping choice BD makes when it saves the column mapping in increment 5. Still worth adding, still worth confirming the entry Stage.
D29. Account resolution
Reviewer resolves at approval
Resolved at import, by the import operator, using Zoho's own matching. The record builder proposes the buyer name as text and nothing more.
D30. Existing-Opportunity duplicate check
Narrow read scope on Opportunities before staging
No API scope exists. The reviewer's manual check is the only control, and the candidate page carries a standing reminder. Every duplicate that reaches an export batch is logged as a finding, not a nuisance. This is the real cost of D31 and it is listed as a risk, not buried.
D10. Notification channel
Cliq, email or both
None in the pilot. Returns with the integration decision.
D6. Intake mailbox
Shared Workspace mailbox
Unchanged. It is an inbound source, not an integration.
Decided for the pilot
Decision
Choice
Rationale in one line
Runtime and orchestration
AWS Canada Central: one EC2 host with Docker Compose and systemd timers in two regional windows
Existing estate, one scheduler, stable egress IP.
Storage
Postgres on the host plus one S3 bucket; RDS at scale
One place for state, translations, approved records, audit and tuning data.
Checkpoint enforcement
Two runtime roles; monitor_pipeline has no privilege on approved_records; one code path inserts, under a named reviewer; proven by a test in CI
Policy becomes a property of the system.
Out of the system
One way, one format, one file, plus a manifest
Nothing writes to a business system, so nothing can write to it by accident.
Model call mode (D5)
Synchronous, cached prompts; Batch deferred to phase 4
Latency target beats a USD 60 saving.
Escalation
Haiku translates and scores all, Sonnet re-scores 40 to 70 once, Opus never daily
Cost control with a quality safety net.
Connector policy
Feeds first; four connector classes; fixtures and health thresholds mandatory
Maintenance is the real cost.
Acquisition ethics
robots.txt, identified user agent, one daily pass, no CAPTCHA solving, no proxies, no third-party mirrors, credentials only in Secrets Manager
Vendor reputation with the same governments.
Data to the model
Public notice text and metadata only, any language
Bounds the governance ask.
Original text is the record
Notice stored and shown in its published language; English rendering is a derived, versioned field
Reviewer and auditor see what was published.
Open
ID
Decision
Options
Recommendation
Owner
Needed by
D1
Model and route
Direct Claude API now then Bedrock ca-central-1; Bedrock from the start; Vertex AI EU; Gemini
Direct API for build and shadow, Bedrock at approval or week 11, whichever is first.
Manuel (CEO sign-off), Martin sponsors
Week 2
D4
Dedupe depth
Hash and fuzzy on English title; add embeddings now
Hash and fuzzy; measure cross-language duplicates in shadow and bring embeddings forward if they exceed 5 percent.
Ryan
Week 8
D6
Intake mailbox
Shared Workspace mailbox monitor@; forwarding rule
Shared mailbox, delegated scope.
Martin with IT
Week 2
D7
Reviewer, backup and week-14 owner
Matthew; a delegate; a BD ops person
Matthew for the pilot, backup named. No reviewer, no pilot.
Matthew
Now
D8
Source list of record
The Source Inventory v0.2 as filed; Matthew's edits; the "600 sites" list if it exists
The inventory, with Matthew's wave-1 ordering for West Africa, capped at 26 own connectors in wave 1.
Matthew, Martin
Now
D9
Scoring floor and eligibility rules
Value floor; national-only excluded or flagged; sub-national included or excluded
Flag, do not exclude; sub-national included; tune at week 10.
Matthew, Martin
Week 3
D12
Portal accounts and ToS, 47 jurisdictions
Register FreeBalance service accounts where terms allow; public listings only
Register under a corporate identity where allowed; public-only elsewhere; legal review of the Balkan and francophone terms in week 2.
Martin, legal
Week 2
D13
AWS account
Dedicated member account; namespace in a delivery account; personal account
Dedicated member account, ca-central-1.
Martin with the cloud team and finance
Week 1
D14
Repository and IP
FreeBalance GitHub organisation; other
FreeBalance organisation, standard employee IP terms. Created personally Friday night, transferred Monday.
Martin, Gerard
Week 1
D15
Taxonomy and lexicon custodian
Product marketing; BD; Ryan
Component map owner approves function-level changes; Ryan owns both lexicons in the pilot; a French-speaking BD reader reviews the French lexicon.
Martin
Week 3
D16
Back-test set
From BD memory; mined from CRM lost or late deals
Both: eight named misses, three non-English, plus a CRM query. Without this the gate is opinion.
Matthew, Martin
Week 2
D17
Pilot host size
t3.large; t3.xlarge from the start
t3.large, move to xlarge on measured window.
Ryan
Week 2
D18
Production compute shape
EC2 M-series plus RDS; ECS Fargate plus RDS
M-series plus RDS at EMEA scale.
Ryan, Martin
Week 14 gate
D19
Bedrock endpoint
Regional ca-central-1; cross-region routing
Regional. Confirm model availability before the cutover, not after.
Ryan
Week 10
D20
Translation design
Claude Haiku in the pipeline; Amazon Translate; DeepL; no translation
Claude Haiku: one vendor, one governance item, system names preserved by prompt.
Ryan, Martin
Week 2
D21
Lexicon languages in the pilot
English only; English and French; add German and Spanish
English and French. German and Spanish notices arrive with CPV codes and TED English titles.
Ryan, Matthew
Week 3
D22
Build capacity
Ryan alone over 14 weeks; Ryan plus a half-time developer over 12
Ryan alone unless the calendar matters more than the cost. This is a resourcing call against portfolio duties, not a line item.
Martin, Gerard
Now
D23
Aggregator trial
OpenOpps; dgMarket; DevelopmentAid; none in the pilot
OpenOpps first (OCDS, structured, cheapest to compare against the back-test).
Martin, Matthew
Week 4
D24
Sub-national scope in the pilot
None; feed-carried only; feed-carried plus two Nigerian states
Feed-carried plus Kaduna and Lagos in wave 2.
Matthew
Week 6
D25
Regional reviewer split
One reviewer for EMEA; one per region
One reviewer with two queue views in the pilot; split at the gate if load exceeds 3 hours a week.
Matthew, Martin
Week 10
D26
Six EU members not in the 47
Keep 47; add Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Hungary, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia
Add them. TED already carries all six with English titles; the cost is six registry rows and six geography weights.
Matthew, Martin
Now
D27
Worksheet credentials
Rotate and move to corporate identities and Secrets Manager now; wait for the pilot decision
Now. Plain-text, shared and reused passwords are a finding under the Acting CSO mandate regardless of the pilot.
Ryan, Martin
Week 1
D32
Import owner and export cadence
Reviewer imports; a BD ops person imports; regional leads import their own region
One named import operator, weekly, Monday, alongside the metrics job. An approved record sitting unimported is an opportunity nobody is working, and that has an owner or it does not happen.
Martin, BD ops
Week 8, before shadow
D33
Column mapping sign-off
BD accepts the export columns as specified; BD amends them
Run the dry-run import in increment 5 and save the mapping. Any column the mapper rejects is a defect I fix, not a field someone hand-keys.
Martin, BD ops
Week 8
11. What I need from the session
From Martin
Who administers FreeBalance's AWS organisation, whether a member account in ca-central-1 can be created this week, and whether Bedrock model access is already enabled anywhere (D13, D1).
Who signs the Claude governance item, what they will want to see, and how long it usually takes (D1). The translation stage is covered by the same approval; say so in the ask (D20).
Acceptance that there is no CRM integration in the pilot and that approved records arrive as a file (D31). This removes asks from his plate rather than adding them: no Zoho sandbox, no CRM API credentials, no OAuth registration, no CRM admin time in weeks 1 to 3.
A named import operator and an agreed cadence (D32), and a BD sign-off on the export columns after the dry-run import (D33).
An owner for the intake mailbox and for portal registrations across 47 jurisdictions (D6, D12).
Repository home and IP position (D14), and who owns the component map and the French lexicon review (D15).
Whether UNDB, UNGM, OpenOpps or any aggregator subscription already exists, and who maintains the BD Africa and Europe worksheets today.
Agreement to rotate the worksheet credentials and move them to corporate identities (D27), and to name the worksheet owners as source-onboarding reviewers for their countries.
The build capacity decision (D22).
From Matthew
His wave-1 order for the ten West African portals and the Balkan portals, and the portals he already checks by hand (D8).
Eight or more concrete misses, three non-English: what, where published, in what language, when, and how he found out (D16).
What a good candidate looks like: value floor, procurement types that matter, buyers to ignore, competitors whose incumbency changes the score, per region (D9).
Whether he will be the reviewer for six weeks at two to three hours a week, and who backs him up (D7).
Confirmation that he is comfortable checking Zoho by hand for an existing Opportunity before approving, since that is the only duplicate control in this scope.
Three hours in weeks 4 to 6 to label the golden set with me, and a French reader for the week-9 sample.
What is up for debate, and what I will hold firm on
Open to change: the model route if governance stalls, the wave-1 order, the scoring floor, the export cadence and format details, whether embeddings come in now or later, and whether a second developer joins.
Not up for debate in the pilot: the system holds no credential to any business system; exactly one code path creates an approved record and it runs under a named reviewer; nothing is notified before shadow mode proves precision; no CAPTCHA solving, proxies or mirrors; no business or contact data reaches any model; the original notice text is what is stored and shown; every source has a fixture and a health threshold before it is enabled; and the export is one way with no import, reconciliation or write-back. These are the properties that make the system defensible if it works and cheap to stop if it does not.
12. Technical risks
Risk
Likelihood
Impact
Mitigation
No automated duplicate check against Opportunities BD already tracks
Certain in this scope, and the failure mode is proven
Wasted reviewer time, two records for one tender, confused pipeline reporting
The reviewer's manual check is the only control, and the candidate page carries a standing line. Every duplicate that reaches an export batch is logged as a finding and counted at the gate. If the count is material, the narrow read scope in 9.5 becomes the first integration taken.
An approved record is never imported
Medium
An opportunity nobody is working, which is the exact failure the system exists to fix
D32 names an owner and a cadence. exported_at is a column, export backlog is on the daily ops check, and an alarm fires when a batch is older than seven days.
A column the Zoho import mapper rejects
Medium
Hand-keying, which erodes the time saving that justifies the pilot
Dry-run import in increment 5 against a sandbox, mapping saved, every rejected column fixed in the exporter and reported as a defect.
Claude Haiku 4.5 or Sonnet 5 not served in ca-central-1
Medium
Residency story weakens or route changes
Check before the cutover; cross-region inference or the Vertex EU alternative decided in D1, not discovered in week 12.
Translation drops or alters a system name or a deadline
Medium
Missed or mis-scored tender
Acronym preservation check on every translation; deadline parsed by rules from the original, never from the translation; "translation wrong" rejection reason and metric; week-9 human sample.
Volume from TED, DÖE, PLACE and BOAMP overwhelms filter and reviewer
High
Precision collapses, reviewer load
CPV first; per-source thresholds; per-source cap of 15 staged candidates a day in shadow mode; region and language filters in the queue.
26 connectors by one person in six weeks
High
Calendar slips
Feeds first; portals last; fixtures recorded as each is built; D22 second developer if the calendar matters.
West African portals unreachable for days; Balkan portals behind registration
High
Coverage gaps
Retry with backoff within a single run only; alert on three failures; coverage metric per source; corporate registrations where terms allow.
Portal redesign silently yields zero
High over months
Silent miss
Zero-yield anomaly is a failure state; contract test with fixture; monthly connector review.
Scanned PDF bulletins (Burkina Faso, Mali, Niger)
High
Missed content
Text-layer detection before OCR; Textract from increment 4; OCR quality sampled.
Cross-language duplicates missed
Medium
Same tender reviewed twice
Fuzzy match on English title plus system name and deadline; measure in shadow; embeddings if above 5 percent (D4).
Review app grows into a product
Medium
Time spent on the wrong thing
Five pages and one form. If a page is not in BUILD_ORDER, it is not built. Anything beyond that is the integration decision at the gate, not a pilot deliverable.
t3 CPU credits exhausted during a two-hour run
Medium at 63 sources
Slow run, not a bill
Standard mode; alarm; move to t3.xlarge on measured window (D17).
Single host is a single point of failure
Certain in pilot
Missed runs while down
Daily snapshots, weekly pg_dump, Terraform rebuild in under an hour; missed runs re-fetch the backlog.
Schema drift in model output
Low
Run stops
Tool-use schema enforcement; one retry; parked queue reviewed weekly.
Single maintainer
Certain in pilot
Continuity
Runbook and architecture kept current from week 3; handover is a gate deliverable.
Cost runaway from a misconfigured source
Low
Budget
Daily call and dollar caps in code; per-source caps; budget alert.
Shared plain-text portal credentials in the BD worksheets
Certain today
Account takeover on government portals under FreeBalance's name
Rotate now; corporate identities; Secrets Manager for the pipeline, password manager for people; credentials column removed from the worksheets (D27).
Appendix A. Canonical Notice schema (pydantic, abridged)
class Notice(BaseModel):
id: UUID
content_hash: str            # sha256 of normalised original text
source_id: str               # from sources/*.yaml
external_id: str | None      # portal or OCDS id
url: HttpUrl
title: str                   # as published, original language
buyer: str | None
country: str                 # ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 (XK for Kosovo)
admin_level: Literal['national','subnational','donor','multilateral']
published_at: datetime | None
deadline_at: datetime | None # parsed from the original, never from a translation
language: str                # BCP-47, from the registry, confirmed by the identifier
language_confidence: float
cpv_codes: list[str] = []
estimated_value: Money | None
text_uri: str                # S3 pointer to extracted original text
fetched_at: datetime
class Translation(BaseModel):
notice_id: UUID
title_en: str
body_en_uri: str
model: str
prompt_version: str
created_at: datetime
Appendix B. Source registry entry (example, francophone portal)
id: sn-marchespublics
name: Portail des marches publics du Senegal (ARCOP)
country: SN
admin_level: national
language: fr
stream: A
wave: 1
access: public_listing        # public_listing | registered | api | mail
connector: PageConnector
schedule: '0 5 * * 1-5'       # Africa/Dakar
list_url: https://...         # verified at build, not here
tos_status: pending           # reviewed_ok | reviewed_restricted | pending
health:
expected_items_per_run: [1, 25]
max_consecutive_failures: 3
owner: ryan.dear
Appendix C. Score output schema (tool definition, abridged)
{
'relevance': int (0-100),
'title_en': str,                 # English title; copied when already English
'matched_functions': [ {'function_id': str, 'evidence': str} ],
'system_names': [str],           # IFMIS, GIFMIS, SIGIF, SIGFiP, AGFIS, ISFU, TSA, HRMIS ...
'procurement_type': 'system' | 'services' | 'advisory' | 'other',
'estimated_value_usd': int | null,
'eligibility_flags': ['national_only','local_registration','consortium_required','tax_clearance_required'],
'deadline_at': date | null,
'summary_en': str (<= 120 words),
'confidence': 'high' | 'medium' | 'low'
}
Appendix D. Identity and scope matrix
Identity
AWS
Postgres
External
ec2-monitor-role (instance profile)
bedrock:InvokeModel on the two named model ARNs after cutover; s3 read and write on the one bucket; secretsmanager:GetSecretValue on named secrets; textract:DetectDocumentText; logs and cloudwatch put; ssm messaging
monitor_pipeline: select and insert on notices, translations, scores, candidates, candidate_notices, events, source_health, fetch_runs. No privilege of any kind on `approved_records`. Cannot set candidates.status to approved.
Read portals and feeds; read the intake mailbox; call the model API
review app (same host, separate process)
none beyond the instance profile's s3 write on the exports/ prefix
monitor_review: insert on approved_records and export_batches, update on candidates, insert on events, select on everything
none
reporting and ops-analyst
none
monitor_readonly: select only, on everything
none
github-deploy-role (OIDC, no keys)
ecr push; ssm:SendCommand on the one instance
none
none
backup-role
EBS snapshot create and delete within the plan
none
none
Reviewer and backup (human)
none
through the review app only, over an SSM port forward
none
Import operator (human)
none
none
their own Zoho CRM login, used by hand on a file
Maintainer (human)
Session Manager access to the one instance; read-only console in pilot
psql as monitor_readonly for diagnosis; migrations applied by the runner under the owner role, never at runtime
Portal service accounts held in Secrets Manager
No identity in this system holds a credential to any business system, because no such credential exists anywhere in the design. The checkpoint is the `monitor_pipeline` grant: the pipeline cannot create an approved record, and a test in CI proves it on every commit. That is a stronger statement than the v0.2 design could make, because it is enforced one layer below the application.
Appendix E. Export column specification
The export produces the CRM's Opportunity columns so the import lands in the module BD already uses. Ghana's live record (Ghana GIFMIS Modernisation and EU PFM Reform) is the reference: it shows the exact field set and it already uses the placeholders this spec reuses (TBD, Unknown, a bare dash) for anything BD has not yet filled in. An imported Monitor record should be indistinguishable in shape from one Matthew starts by hand. It should just arrive a day after publication instead of whenever someone notices it.
Category: D derived directly from the notice or candidate, written with confidence. S a heuristic suggestion, written but expected to change; the reviewer sees it in the record preview before approving and edits it there like any other field. B BD judgement only; the exporter writes the same placeholder the CRM already uses and never guesses.
File format: UTF-8 with BOM, comma separated, one row per approved record, headers exactly as below and in this order. Dates ISO 8601. Currency as a bare number with a separate currency column, no thousands separators. Empty means empty, never "N/A". Two columns exist for traceability and are not CRM fields: monitor_candidate_id and monitor_export_batch.
Opportunity information
Field
Cat
Rule
Default when not derivable
Opportunity Name
D
candidate.title_en
—
Opportunity Owner
B
assigned by the regional BD lead at import
TBD
Stage
S
fixed entry stage for every Monitor record, set at import mapping
TBD
Closing Date
B
a bid deadline is not a deal-close date
TBD
Finance Project ID
D
World Bank P-number or AfDB project number when the notice or its donor source states one
blank
Account Name
S
buyer text, carried as a proposal for the import operator to match or create in Zoho
"proposed: <buyer>"
Is this a Partner or Reseller-led opportunity?
S
No, unless a named local implementation partner is detected in the text
No
Level of Government
D
admin_level: national to Central; subnational to Local/Regional
—
Sales Forecasting
B
forecast category is a BD judgement
TBD
Proposal Type
S
keyword scan for RFP, ITB, EOI, GPN against procurement_type
"RFP (or similar)"
Original Closing Date
B
—
TBD
Lead Source
S
"Monitor" if the value exists, otherwise set at import mapping
Monitor
Partners Involved
D
every donor-stream source in the candidate's cluster, named
blank
Pipeline
S
fixed default for Monitor records
Standard (Sales Opportunity)
Industry
D
region lookup (West Africa; EU/EEA/UK/CH; Balkans and Ukraine) from config/record_defaults.yaml
—
Shipping Country
D
notice.country, full name
—
Funding Source
D
donor stream tag on the matched source (World Bank to IDA/IBRD per the loan type where stated, AfDB, EU, MCC, IsDB, BOAD)
Government budget
Currency
S
USD unless the notice states another currency
USD
Deal classification
Field
Cat
Rule
Default when not derivable
Deal Tier
S
score band: 85+ Tier 1, 60-84 Tier 2, below 60 is never staged
reviewer confirms
Delivery Model
S
Direct by default; Direct (Partner-Supported) if Partners Involved is non-empty
Direct
Expected Close Year
B
too speculative to guess well
TBD
Customer Type
S
New Customer, unless the reviewer knows otherwise and edits it
New Customer
Eligibility requirements
Field
Cat
Rule
Default when not derivable
Eligibility Requirements Met?
S
Yes if eligibility_flags is empty; "Review needed" otherwise
Unknown
Eligibility Requirements Comments
D
one sentence naming the flags, or stating none were detected
"No eligibility barriers detected in the notice text."
Partner and legal information
Field
Cat
Rule
Default when not derivable
Partner Required?
S
Yes if Partners Involved is non-empty or the notice is donor-financed
Unknown
Partner Required Comments
D
lists the detected partners
blank
Legal Support Required?
B
—
Unknown
Legal Support Comments
B
—
TBD
Submission information
Field
Cat
Rule
Default when not derivable
Expected Release of RFP/EOI?
S
deadline_at when the candidate is still a donor pipeline signal (procurement_type "other")
TBD
Proposal Due or Submitted
D
deadline_at when the candidate is an already-published tender
TBD
Proposal Documents Received
B
—
dash
Pre-Bid Meeting
B
—
TBD
Deadline for Questions
B
—
TBD
Delivery Logistics and Visa Requirements
B
—
TBD
Do we need to register our interest?
S
Yes if eligibility_flags includes local_registration or consortium_required
Unknown
Number of Copies?
B
—
TBD
Is Bid Bond Required
B
—
Unknown
Format of Bid Bond
B
—
dash
Amount of Bid Bond (if known)
B
—
TBD
Estimated Duration of Contract in Months
B
used only if the notice explicitly states one
TBD
Pricing summary
Field
Cat
Rule
Default when not derivable
Licenses / Implementation Services / Software Maintenance / Academy-Training / Sustainability-Help Desk / Third Party Licenses
B
commercial structure is BD's job, always
dash or 0
FreeBalance Amount
B
—
0
Total Opportunity Amount
S
candidate.estimated_value_usd, carried as an unverified estimate
0
Probability (%)
S
flat default for a freshly-sourced, unqualified record
10
Tax Amount
B
—
dash
Pricing Notes
D
one sentence: funding source, project id if any, estimated value, and the words "Monitor-estimated, unverified"
—
Hardware and products required
Field
Cat
Rule
Default when not derivable
Hardware/Hosting
B
—
dash
Standard or Custom Product Required?
S
FreeBalance's own positioning
Standard (COTS)
FreeBalance Products Required
D
matched_functions mapped through the product key in function_map.yaml (below). The field takes a set, because some functions map to more than one product.
—
Product Gaps
D
any matched function whose product status is not Available, named with its status
blank when every matched product is Available
Are gaps critical / Mandatory Requirements / Evaluation Weighting / Do we pass the 80/20 rule? / Third Party Software / Hardware and Systems Software / Level of Effort
B
scoping work, always BD
TBD
Implementation and pricing
Field
Cat
Rule
Default when not derivable
Implementation Period / Number of Users / System Go Live / Available Budget / Warranty Period / Post-Warranty Period / Budget Notes
B
none of this exists in a notice
TBD, or dash for Available Budget
Additional information
Field
Cat
Rule
Default when not derivable
Created By
D
set by Zoho at import to the import operator; the reviewer's name travels in Next Steps and in the audit trail
—
Next Steps
D
one generic sentence naming the reviewer and the date of approval, then: resolve the Account, confirm funding source, register interest if flagged
"Approved by <reviewer> on <date>. Validate opportunity details; confirm the Account link; confirm funding source; register interest if required."
monitor_candidate_id
D
candidate id, for traceability back to the notice and the audit trail
—
monitor_export_batch
D
export batch id
—
Product mapping, from the component map itself
The v0.2 draft carried a hand-written seven-row product bucket. The component map workbook already holds a better one. Its New Marketecture sheet maps every component to one of 20 FreeBalance products with a status of Available, High, Medium or Low Priority, across 578 mapping rows for 559 components. Two consequences: the product field takes a set rather than a single value, because some components map to more than one product, and the status column populates Product Gaps for free instead of defaulting it to TBD.
PFM function (map)
Product (New Marketecture)
Status
1.2 Budget Planning / Formulation, 1.3 Public Accounts Management
Government Budget Formulation
Available
1.4 Performance Structures and Implementation
Fiscal Performance and Transparency
Available
2.1 Budget and Appropriation Control, 2.2 Commitment Management, 2.3 Budget Execution, 3.1 Treasury Accounting, 3.2 Cost Accounting
Core Financial Execution and Reporting
Available
2.4 Compliance and Governance
Risk and Performance Audit
Available
4.1 Bank and Cash Management
Treasury and Liquidity
Available
4.2 Debt and Investment Management
Public Debt and Guarantee Management; Public Financial Investments
Available; not Available
5.1 Procurement Management
Electronic Public Procurement
Available
3.3 Asset and Inventory Management
Asset and Inventory Lifecycle
not Available
4.3 Risk Management
Government Risk and Compliance
not Available
5.2 Social Benefits Management
Social Protection and Benefits
not Available
5.3 Grants and Transfers Management
Transfers and Grants
not Available
5.4 Public Investment Management
Public Investment and Capital Projects
not Available
6.1 Revenue Management, 6.2 Non-Tax Revenue
Revenue and Receipts Mobilization
not Available
6.1 Revenue Management, 6.3 Tax Revenue
Tax Administration Mobilization
not Available
7.1 Civil Service Planning
Public Service Planning
not Available
7.2 Payroll, 7.3 Civil Service Workforce Management
Payroll and Wage Bills
not Available
7.3 to 7.6 Civil Service Workforce, Movement, Performance, Benefits
Public Service Talent and Capital Human Capital
not Available
1.1 Policy Management
Policy Management
not Available
8.1 to 8.5 Government Service Delivery
No product mapping in the workbook. Score the function, leave the product set empty, and record "no product mapping" in Product Gaps.
—
Two things to flag with the component map owner (D15): pillar 8 carries no product mapping at all, and the "Available" set is 141 of 559 components, so most matched functions will produce a Product Gaps entry. That is accurate rather than a defect, but BD should see it before the first export batch rather than in it.
This mapping and the record defaults live in config/function_map.yaml (the product and status keys on each function) and config/record_defaults.yaml, not in code, per the config-over-code principle.
